JUDY WOODRUFF: On Capitol
Hill, Senate Republicans
continue their internal
fight over the health
care bill, as polls show
strong disapproval of
the Republican plan.
And polling in the past
week indicates historically
low approval for the
president at this point
in his first term.
Multiple polls have Mr. Trump's
approval in the 30s or at 40,
and his disapproval rating
in the 50s.
For all that, it's time for
Politics Monday with Tamara
Keith of NPR and Amy Walter of
The Cook Political Report.
So, it's time to talk
about polls again.
We don't do this every week.
We save it for
special occasions.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Amy,
seriously, there are a group of
new polls, three or four polls
out taken in the last week or
so, that do show some slippage
for the president in the
last few months, particularly
among independents.
There's a Washington Post poll
that shows, what, a six-point
slippage just since April.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Right, just among --
in general among independents.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
AMY WALTER: When we
first started talking
about the president
after his inauguration,
we said this is a president
who is starting with the lowest
approval rating of any president
that's been inaugurated.
Let's see where
he goes with this.
Instead of starting with a deep
reservoir of goodwill and a
honeymoon, which most presidents
start with, he started with
a deep -- he didn't have
that reservoir of good will.
Was be going to able
to fill up that well?
And the reality is, here we
are, six months later, he's
actually 14 points lower than
what he was.
He's not filling it up.
He's draining it even more.
And where it's draining
from, it's from independents.
And that's a danger point here,
not just for the president, but
really for members of Congress
who are up in 2018.
If you're a Republican, you
know your base is still behind
you, Democrats have never
been with you, but independents,
those are the folks,
especially for members who sit
in sort of swing type districts,
those are the people that
they can't afford to be losing
by this percentage that
the president's losing by.
If he only has a 30, 31
percent approval rating
among independents, it
makes it very difficult
for Republicans up in 2018.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Tam, we
know the Trump folks already
have their campaign committee
up and running for reelection.
How do they look at all this?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: It's not clear what
the campaign is actually doing
in terms of moving
toward reelection.
He's held some rallies.
President Trump tweeted over
the weekend that he thought it
wasn't really that bad, that
this poll wasn't so bad.
And, you know, the best thing
the president could do to
improve his approval rating -- I
guess there's probably two
things, one, maybe focus on some
of the people who didn't support
him in the beginning and
maybe try doing something,
anything that wouldn't
be seen as strictly
partisan.
And the other thing would be,
you know, like, start winning.
He has -- you know, he
promised you are going
to be so sick of winning.
But, you know, he hasn't
had the major legislative
accomplishments.
The health care bill has
gotten totally bogged down.
It was supposed to be
done maybe by April.
And that's something that
his base really wanted.
But he just has not
done a lot of things.
He did the executive orders
that the base liked, but that
turned off the independents
and others.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we even --
you and I were just -- we were
just talking a moment ago,
Amy, about when you ask people
even about impeachment, 41
percent in a Monmouth poll
support impeaching
the president.
And you were just saying, for
Richard Nixon at this point,
it was much less than that.
AMY WALTER: For Richard Nixon
going into the summary of 1973,
his overall approval rating
was basically where Donald
Trump's is right now.
The difference is the
intensity of the opposition
or the dislike of President
Nixon among partisans.
He had 25 percent approval
rating among Democrats,
Nixon did, in July of 1973.
President Trump has
about 8 percent approval
rating among Democrats.
So, the intensity of
opposition to the president
has always been an issue.
As Tam points out, he's
not getting the intensity
of support among his base.
And he made that decision
when he came into office.
Instead of trying to grow that
base, he had a very narrow
base of support, very narrow
support among all kinds of
voters, except for Republicans.
Instead of trying to grow it,
he's focused and doubled down
on the small group of people
who supported him all along.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Tam, you're
talking about ways where the
president could put some wins
on the board.
Health care reform is one of the
issues he has been focused on.
This was another question in
the Washington Post/ABC poll.
And this can't be
considered good news
for the administration.
People were asked what
they think about Obamacare
vs. the Republican plan.
By 2-1, they prefer Obamacare.
TAMARA KEITH: Which
is pretty remarkable.
Obamacare has seen -- you know,
it's having better days than
it ever had when President
Obama was president.
You know, I was out in Kentucky
last week talking to voters.
Just a few little anecdotes.
One woman I talked to supported
President Trump, doesn't
like Obamacare, but is deeply
concerned about the Republican
health care bill, in
particular the Medicaid cuts.
Another voter I talked
to basically said, why
the -- what's the rush?
Why are they hurrying?
Why don't they slow down
and do this together?
He was also a Republican.
And then one other Republican
I talked to said he didn't
really know what was in the
bill, but he was glad it got
rid of the individual mandate.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: That's the
big problem right now.
There is nobody
selling this bill.
TAMARA KEITH: Right.
AMY WALTER: We're talking
a lot about process.
We're talking a lot about
members who are supporting
or not supporting it.
There is nobody out there
really championing this bill.
Even the president himself is
just sending out tweets saying,
I sure hope you guys vote
for it.
We have been saying we're
going to vote for it.
He's not going out.
He's not holding rallies.
I looked at the amount of money
that's been spent since the
end of May on ads that talk
about this health care bill;
$6 million have been spent so
far in advertising; 5.8 million
of those dollars have been
spent on negative attacks on the
health care or urging senators
to vote against it.
So, without a champion, it's
not surprising to me at all
that the health care bill that
Republicans are putting forward
isn't particularly popular.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's probably
similar to the ratio of what
was spent against Obamacare
when that was being debated.
But, Tam, this is -- with
the vote now delayed, the
opponents are worried.
I mean, the folks who don't want
this are saying it gives them
time to build up opposition,
more opposition.
TAMARA KEITH: Absolutely.
Mitch McConnell didn't
want to take a lot of time
to let this bill stew.
He wanted to hurry
and get a vote on it.
And there's a reason for that,
because the longer it just
hangs out there, the longer
people have to look at
the Congressional Budget
Office score, which is
not out just yet, but
the longer governors have
to put pressure on their
senators, the longer voters have
to call into their Senate
offices every single
day, the harder it gets
to make this happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's always
easier to fight something
than it is to support it.
But, having said this, Amy,
your point about so much of
this has been done behind closed
doors.
AMY WALTER: That's right.
Well, and without --
again, without a real
champion supporting it.
But you're right.
This has not been
done with committees.
There hasn't been a whole lot of
public discussion or even within
Congress a whole lot of public
debate about this.
Tam is right.
McConnell wanted to get
this done, move on to
something like taxes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I promise
we won't talk about polls
again for a whole year.
Fingers crossed.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: I don't believe you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tam
and Amy, thank you.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.